initial version of the mtls blog (#14000)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2023/secure-apps-with-istio/index.md

---
title: "Secure Application Communications with Mutual TLS and Istio"
description: Dive into securing application communications, mTLS and Istio to achieve end-to-end mTLS among your applications.

> publishdate: 2023-11-12

Author: hmm not sure why this is pending?

have satisfied all the identity validations, you will (hopefully) be granted the identity
document. You can give that identity document to someone else as proof that you have satisfied
all the identity validation requirements of the issuing authority, and if they trust the
issuing authority (and the identity document itself), they can trust what it says about you (or they can contact the trusted authority and verify the document).

An identity could take any form, but, as with any form of identity document, the weaker the identity
validations are, the easier it is to forge, and the less useful that identity document is to anyone
using it to make a decision. That’s why, in computing, cryptographically verifiable identities are
so important - they are signed by a verifiable authority, similar to
your passport and driver’s license. Identities based around anything less are a security weakness
that is relatively easy to exploit.

Your system may have identities derived from network properties such as IP addresses with
distributed identity caches that track the mapping between identities and these network properties

> such as IP addresses. These identities don’t have strong guarantees as cryptographically verifiable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These identities don’t have strong guarantees as cryptographically verifiable
```

> distributed identity caches that track the mapping between identities and these network properties
> such as IP addresses. These identities don’t have strong guarantees as cryptographically verifiable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
distributed identity caches that track the mapping between identities and these network properties.
These identities don’t have strong guarantees as cryptographically verifiable
```

The reference to IP addresses is repeated.

1. All handshake messages (phase 2 and 3) are encrypted **using the encryption keys negotiated in phase 1**.
1. Legacy symmetric encryption algorithms have been pruned.
1. A zero round-trip time (0-RTT) mode was added, saving a round trip at connection setup.

#### Record protocol

Having negotiated the TLS protocol version, session-key & [HMAC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HMAC)
during the handshake phase, the peers can now securely exchange encrypted data that is chunked by the [record protocol](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8446#section-5). It is critical (and
required as part of the spec) to use the exact same negotiated parameters from the handshake to
encrypt the traffic to ensure the traffic confidentiality and integrity.

Putting the two protocols from the TLS 1.3 specification together and using the `frontend` and
`checkout` applications to illustrate the flow as below:

{{< image width="100%"
    link="mtls-flow.png"
    caption="mTLS flows when the frontend calls the checkout application"
    >}}

> Who issues the identity certificates for `frontend` and `checkout`? It is commonly issued by a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Who issues the identity certificates for `frontend` and `checkout`? They are commonly issued by a
```

Author: Hmm, are you sure it is "They are" here?  It refers to a CA, i believe.

cc @dhawton who is a native speaker to chime in here.

Reviewer 3: They would be more accurate here due to the plurality of certificates. The subject is the identity certificates for frontend and checkout rather than the CA.

> [certificate authority (CA)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority) which may have its own [root certificate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Root_certificate) or use an intermediate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[certificate authority (CA)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority) which either has
its own [root certificate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Root_certificate) or uses an intermediate
```

Author: Not sure if the proposed wording is better, @dhawton thoughts?

Reviewer 3: Either way reads the same.

certificate from its root CA. A root certificate is basically a public key certificate that

> identifies a root CA, which you likely already have in your organization. Root certificate is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
identifies a root CA, which you likely already have in your organization. The root certificate is
```

> distributed to `frontend` (or `checkout`) in addition to the identity certificate. This is how

Reviewer: ```suggestion
distributed to `frontend` (or `checkout`) in addition to its own root-signed identity certificate. This is how
```

Author: oh i like this clarification, thx!!!

everyday, basic Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) works - a CA has responsibility for validating an
entity’s identity document, and then grants it an unforgeable identity document in the form of a
certificate.

You can rely on your CA and intermediate CAs as source of identity **truth** in a structural fashion
that maintains high availability and stable, persistently-verifiable identity guarantees in a way
that a massive distributed cache of IP and identity maps simply cannot. When the `frontend` and
`checkout` identity certificates are issued by the same root certificate, `frontend` and `checkout`
can verify their peer identities consistently and reliably regardless of which cluster or nodes or scale
they run.

You learned about how mTLS provides cryptographic identity, confidentiality and integrity, what
about scalability as you grow to thousands or more applications among multiple clusters? If you
establish a single root certificate across multiple clusters, the system doesn’t need to care when

> your application gets a connection request from which cluster as long as it is trusted by the root

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your application gets a connection request from another cluster as long as it is trusted by the root
```

keep track of the identity cache and calculate which IP address maps to which application pod.

What about FIPS compliance? Per TLS 1.3 specification, TLS-compliant applications must implement the
`TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256` cipher suite, and are recommended to implement `TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384`, both
of which are also in the [guidelines for TLS](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-52r2.pdf)
by NIST. RSA or ECDSA server certificates are also recommended by both TLS 1.3 specification and
NIST’s guideline for TLS. As long as you use mTLS and FIPS 140-2 or 140-3 compliant cryptographic
modules for your mTLS connections, you will be on the right path for
[FIPS 140-2 or 140-3 validation](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/validated-modules).

## What could go wrong

It is critical to implement mTLS exactly as the TLS 1.3 specification dictates. Without using
proper mTLS following the TLS specification, here are a few things that can go wrong without
detection:

### What if someone in the middle of the connection silently captures the encrypted data?

> If the connection doesn’t follow exactly the handshake and record protocols as outlined in TLS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the connection doesn’t follow exactly the handshake and record protocols as outlined in the TLS
```

> specification, for example, the connection follows the handshake protocol but not reusing the

Reviewer: Isn't it just "using", not "reusing"?

Author: ```suggestion
specification, for example, the connection follows the handshake protocol but not using the
```

Author: Thanks, using does seem to make sense also.

negotiated session key and parameters from handshake in the record protocol, you may have your
connection’s handshake unrelated to the record protocol where identities could be different between
the handshake and record protocols. With unrelated handshake and record protocols, one connection

> becomes two connections, thus the attack surface is increased for man-in-the middle attacks.

Reviewer: I find this sentence kind of confusing.  What about something like the following?

```
TLS requires that the handshake and record protocols share the same connection because separating them increases the attack surface for man-in-the-middle attacks.
```

Author: Thanks, I've accepted your proposed change.

A mTLS connection has a consistent end-to-end security from start of the handshake to finish. The
encrypted data is encrypted with the session key negotiated using the public key in the
certificate. Only the source and destination can decrypt the data with the private key. In other
words, only the owner of the certificate who has the private key can decrypt the data.  Unless a
hacker has control of the private key of the certificate, he or she doesn't have a way to mess
around with the mTLS connection to successfully execute a man-in-the-middle attack.

### What if either source or destination identity is not cryptographically secure?

If the identity is based on network properties such as IP address, which could be re-allocated to
other pods, the identity can’t be validated using cryptographic techniques. Since this type of
identity isn’t based on cryptographic identity, your system likely has an identity cache to track
the mapping between the identity, the pod’s network labels, the corresponding IP address and the

> Kubernetes node info where the pod is deployed. With identity cache, you could run into pod IP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes node info where the pod is deployed. With an identity cache, you could run into pod IP
```

addresses being reused and identity mistaken where policy isn’t enforced properly when the identity
cache gets out of sync for a short period of time. For example, if you don’t have cryptographic
identity on the connection between the peers, your system would have to get the identity from the
identity cache which could be outdated or incomplete.

> These Identity caches that map identity to workload IPs are not [ACID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ACID)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These identity caches that map identity to workload IPs are not [ACID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ACID)
```

(Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability) and you want your security system to be applied
to something with strong guarantees. Consider the following properties and questions you may want
to ask yourself:

> - Staleness: How can a peer verify that an entry in the cache is 'current'?
> - Incompleteness: If there's a cache miss and the system fails to close the connection, does the
> network become unstable when it's only the cache 'synchronizer' that is failing?

Reviewer 4: Do we want to emphasize **current** and **synchronizer** the same way we're emphasizing **failing closed**?
```suggestion
- Staleness: How can a peer verify that an entry in the cache is **current**?
- Incompleteness: If there's a cache miss and the system fails to close the connection, does the
network become unstable when it's only the cache **synchronizer** that is failing?
```

Author: Thanks!  accepted in the new commits

- What if something simply doesn't have an IP? For example, an AWS Lambda service doesn’t by
default have a public IP.

> - Non-transactional: if you read the identity twice will you see the same value? If you are not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Non-transactional: If you read the identity twice will you see the same value? If you are not
```

- Who will guard the guards themselves? Are there established practices to protect
the cache like CA has? What proof do you have that the cache has not been tampered with? Are you
forced to reason about (and audit) the security of some complex infrastructure that is not your CA?

Some of the above are worse than others. You can apply the **failing closed** principle but that does not solve all of the above.

Identities are also used in enforcing access policies such as authorization policy, and these
access policies are in the request path where your system has to make decisions fast to allow or
deny the access. Whenever identities become mistaken, access policies could be bypassed without
being detected or audited. For example, your identity cache may have your `checkout` pod’s prior
allocated IP address associated as one of the `checkout` identities. If the `checkout` pod gets
recycled and the same IP address is just allocated to one of the `frontend` pods, that `frontend` pod could have the `checkout`'s identity before the cache is updated, which could cause wrong access
policies to be enforced.

> Let us illustrate the identity cache stale problem assuming the following large scale multi-cluster deployment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us illustrate the identity cache staleness problem assuming the following large scale multi-cluster deployment:
```

and valid certificates continue to provide strong identity guarantees for your workloads. For
increased reliability for issuance, you can deploy Intermediate CAs to different zones and regions.

## mTLS in Istio

### Enable mTLS

Enabling mTLS in Istio for intra-mesh applications is very simple. All you need is to add your
applications to the mesh, which can be done by labeling your namespace for either sidecar injection
or ambient. In the case of sidecar, a rollout restart would be required for sidecar to be injected
to your application pods.

### Cryptographic identity

In Kubernetes environment, [Istio](/docs/concepts/security/#istio-identity)
creates an application’s identity based on its service account. Identity certificate is provided to
each application pod in the mesh after you add your application to the mesh.

By default, your pod's identity certificate expires in 24 hours and Istio rotates the pod identity
certificate every 12 hours so that in the event of a compromise (for example, compromised CA or
stolen private key for the pod), the compromised certificate only works for a very limited period

> of time until the certificate expires and therefore could limit the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of time until the certificate expires and therefore limit the
```

your application to accept only mTLS traffic, you can use Istio’s
[PeerAuthentication](/docs/reference/config/security/peer_authentication/) policy, mesh-wide or
per namespace or workload. In addition, you can also apply Istio’s
[AuthorizationPolicy](/docs/reference/config/security/authorization-policy/) to control access for your workloads.

### TLS version

TLS version 1.3 is the default in Istio for intra-mesh application communication with the Envoy’s
[default cipher suites](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/transport_sockets/tls/v3/common.proto)
(for example `TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384` for Istio 1.19.0). If you need an older version, you can
[configure a different mesh-wide minimum TLS protocol version](/docs/tasks/security/tls-configuration/workload-min-tls-version/) for your workloads.

## Wrapping up

The TLS protocol, as established by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), is one of the most
widely-reviewed, expert-approved, battle-tested data security protocols in existence. TLS is also
widely used globally - whenever you visit any secured website, you shop with confidence partly

> because of the connection secure icon to indicate that you are connected to a trusted site

Reviewer: ```suggestion
because of the padlock icon to indicate that you are connected to a trusted site
```

Maybe be a little more specific?

> securely using TLS. The TLS 1.3 protocol was designed with end-to-end authentication,

Reviewer 3: I think `connection secured` is better wording as icons are typically referred to by function.

> securely using TLS. The TLS 1.3 protocol was designed with end-to-end authentication,

Author: I'm okay with padlock as it is talked often in this context as well.

of which are also in the [guidelines for TLS](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-52r2.pdf)
by NIST. RSA or ECDSA server certificates are also recommended by both TLS 1.3 specification and
NIST’s guideline for TLS. As long as you use mTLS and FIPS 140-2 or 140-3 compliant cryptographic
modules for your mTLS connections, you will be on the right path for
[FIPS 140-2 or 140-3 validation](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/validated-modules).

## What could go wrong

It is critical to implement mTLS exactly as the TLS 1.3 specification dictates. Without using
proper mTLS following the TLS specification, here are a few things that can go wrong without
detection:

### What if someone in the middle of the connection silently captures the encrypted data?

If the connection doesn’t follow exactly the handshake and record protocols as outlined in the TLS
specification, for example, the connection follows the handshake protocol but not using the
negotiated session key and parameters from the handshake in the record protocol, you may have your

> connection’s handshake unrelated to the record protocol where identities could be different between
> the handshake and record protocols. With unrelated handshake and record protocols, one connection
> becomes two connections, thus the attack surface is increased for man-in-the middle attacks.

Author: ```suggestion
connection’s handshake unrelated to the record protocol where identities could be different between
the handshake and record protocols. TLS requires that the handshake and record protocols share the same connection because separating them increases the attack surface for man-in-the-middle attacks.
```

---
title: "Secure Application Communications with Mutual TLS and Istio"

> description: Dive into requirements to secure application communications, mTLS and Istio to achieve
> end-to-end mTLS among your applications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
description: |
  Dive into requirements to secure application communications, mTLS and Istio to achieve
  end-to-end mTLS among your applications.
```

This will fix the lint issue

>   end-to-end mTLS among your applications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  end-to-end mTLS among your applications
```
One more lint

identities on both ends, we can ensure powerful access policies are enforced correctly, securely,
and reliably, with a validatable audit trail.

### FIPS compliance

[Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS)](https://www.nist.gov/standardsgov/compliance-faqs-federal-information-processing-standards-fips)
are standards and guidelines for federal computer systems that are developed by
[National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST)](https://www.nist.gov/). Not everyone
requires FIPS compliance, but FIPS compliance means meeting all the necessary security requirements
established by the U.S. government for protecting sensitive information. It is required when working
with the federal government. To follow the guidelines developed by the US government relating to
cybersecurity, many in the private sector voluntarily use these FIPS standards.

To illustrate the above secure application requirements (identity, confidentiality and integrity),
let’s use two simple applications (an application called `frontend` that calls an application called
`checkout`). Remember, you can think of “ID” in the diagram as any kind of identity document such as

> a government issued passport, photo identifier:

Reviewer 4: `frontend` and `backend` were already mentioned in the Access Policy Enforcement section above without an introduction. Consider moving the introduction to these application earlier in the blog.

Author: Updated, removed the intro, feels not needed

`checkout` application:

1. Phase 1: `frontend` and `checkout` negotiates the cryptographic parameters and encryption keys
that can be used to protect the rest of the handshake and traffic data.
1. Phase 2: everything in this phase and after are encrypted. In this phase, `frontend` and `checkout` establish other handshake parameters, and whether or not the client is also
authenticated - that is, mTLS.
1. Phase 3: `frontend` authenticates `checkout` via its cryptographically verifiable identity (and, in mTLS, `checkout` authenticates `frontend` in the same way).

There are a few major differences since TLS 1.2 related to handshake, refer to the TLS 1.3 specification for [more details](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8446#section-1.2):

1. All handshake messages (phase 2 and 3) are encrypted **using the encryption keys negotiated in phase 1**.
1. Legacy symmetric encryption algorithms have been pruned.
1. A zero round-trip time (0-RTT) mode was added, saving a round trip at connection setup.

#### Record protocol

Having negotiated the TLS protocol version, session-key & [HMAC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HMAC)

> during the handshake phase the peers can now securely exchange encrypted data that is chunked by the [record protocol](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8446#section-5). It is critical (and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
during the handshake phase, the peers can now securely exchange encrypted data that is chunked by the [record protocol](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8446#section-5). It is critical (and
```

required as part of the spec) to use the exact same negotiated parameters from the handshake to
encrypt the traffic to ensure the traffic confidentiality and integrity.

Putting the two protocols from the TLS 1.3 specification together and using the `frontend` and
`checkout` applications to illustrate the flow as below:

{{< image width="100%"
    link="mtls-flow.png"
    caption="mTLS flows when the frontend calls the checkout application"
    >}}

> Who is issuing the identity certificates for `frontend` and `checkout`? It is commonly issued by a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Who issues the identity certificates for `frontend` and `checkout`? It is commonly issued by a
```

> [certificate authority](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority) (CA) which may have its own [root certificate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Root_certificate) or use an intermediate

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[certificate authority (CA)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority) which may have its own [root certificate](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Root_certificate) or use an intermediate
```

For consistency. Elsewhere the abbreviation was part of the link as well.

entity’s identity document, and then grants it an unforgeable identity document in the form of a
certificate.

You can rely on your CA and intermediate CAs as source of identity **truth** in a structural fashion
that maintains high availability and stable, persistently-verifiable identity guarantees in a way
that a massive distributed cache of IP and identity maps simply cannot. When the `frontend` and
`checkout` identity certificates are issued by the same root certificate, `frontend` and `checkout`
can verify their peer identities consistently and reliably regardless of which cluster or nodes or scale
they run.

You learned about how mTLS provides cryptographic identity, confidentiality and integrity, what
about scalability as you grow to thousands or more applications among multiple clusters? If you
establish a single root certificate across multiple clusters, the system doesn’t need to care when
your application gets a connection request from which cluster as long as it is trusted by the root
certificate - the system knows the identity on the connection is cryptographically verified. As your

> application pod changes IP or redeployed to a different cluster or network, your application (or

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
application pod changes IP or is redeployed to a different cluster or network, your application (or
```

keep track of the identity cache and calculate which IP address maps to which application pod.

What about FIPS compliance? Per TLS 1.3 specification, TLS-compliant applications must implement the
`TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256` cipher suite, and are recommended to implement `TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384`, both
of which are also in the [guidelines for TLS](https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-52r2.pdf)
by NIST. RSA or ECDSA server certificates are also recommended by both TLS 1.3 specification and
NIST’s guideline for TLS. As long as you use mTLS and FIPS 140-2 or 140-3 compliant cryptographic
modules for your mTLS connections, you will be on the right path for
[FIPS 140-2 or 140-3 validation](https://csrc.nist.gov/projects/cryptographic-module-validation-program/validated-modules).

## What could go wrong

It is critical to implement mTLS exactly as the TLS 1.3 specification dictates. Without using
proper mTLS following the TLS specification, here are a few things that can go wrong without
detection:

### What if someone in the middle of the connection silently captures the encrypted data?

> If the connection doesn’t follow exactly the handshake and record protocols as outlined in TLS
> specification, for example, the connection follows the handshake protocol but not reusing the
> negotiated session key and parameters from handshake in the record protocol, you may have your
> connection’s handshake unrelated to the record protocol where identities could be different between
> the handshake and record protocols. With unrelated handshake and record protocols, one connection
> becomes two connections, thus the attack surface is increased for man-in-the middle attacks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the connection doesn’t follow the handshake and record protocols exactly as outlined in TLS
specification and, for example, the connection follows the handshake protocol but does not reuse the
negotiated session key and parameters from handshake in the record protocol, you may have your
connection’s handshake unrelated to the record protocol where identities could be different between
the handshake and record protocols. With unrelated handshake and record protocols, one connection
becomes two connections, thus the attack surface is increased for man-in-the middle attacks.
```

These Identity caches that map identity to workload IPs are not [ACID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ACID)
(Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and Durability) and you want your security system to be applied
to something with strong guarantees. Consider the following properties and questions you may want
to ask yourself:

- Staleness: How can a peer verify that an entry in the cache is 'current'?
- Incompleteness: If there's a cache miss and the system fails to close the connection, does the
network become unstable when it's only the cache 'synchronizer' that is failing?
- What if something simply doesn't have an IP? For example, an AWS Lambda service doesn’t by
default have a public IP.
- Non-transactional: if you read the identity twice will you see the same value? If you are not
careful in your access policy or auditing implementation this can cause real issues.
- Who will guard the guards themselves? Are there established practices to protect
the cache like CA has? What proof do you have that the cache has not been tampered with? Are you
forced to reason about (and audit) the security of some complex infrastructure that is not your CA?

> Some of the above are worse than others. You can apply the 'failing closed' principle but that does not solve all of the above.

Reviewer 4: I think the intent behind 'current' with single quotes is to emphasize it. Would this be better performed by `**bold**` or `_italicized_` text? I bring it up because reading the rendered preview I initially thought it was supposed to be the `inline code` formatting but it hadn't rendered correctly.

Author: Good point, resolved

Identities are also used in enforcing access policies such as authorization policy, and these
access policies are in the request path where your system has to make decisions fast to allow or
deny the access. Whenever identities become mistaken, access policies could be bypassed without
being detected or audited. For example, your identity cache may have your `checkout` pod’s prior
allocated IP address associated as one of the `checkout` identities. If the `checkout` pod gets

> recycled and the same IP address is just allocated to one of the `frontend` pods, that `frontend` pod could have the `checkout`'s identity before the cache is updated, which could cause wrong access

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
recycled and the same IP address is just allocated to one of the `frontend` pods, that `frontend` pod could have the `checkout`'s identity before the cache is updated, which could cause the wrong access
```

policies to be enforced.

Let us illustrate the identity cache stale problem assuming the following large scale multi-cluster deployment:

1. 100 clusters where each cluster has 100 nodes with 20 pods per node. The number of total pods is 200,000.
1. 0.2% of pods are being churned at all times (rollout, restarts, recovery, node churn, ...), each churn is a 10 second window.
1. 400 pods which are being churned are distributed to 10,000 nodes’ (caches) every 10 secs
1. If the cache synchronizer stalls what % stale is the system after 5 minutes - potentially as high as 6%!

> Above assumes the cache synchronizer is in a steady state. If cache synchronizer has a brown-out it would affect its health-checking which increases churn rate, leading to cascading instability.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The above example assumes the cache synchronizer is in a steady state. If the cache synchronizer has a brown-out it would affect its health-checking which increases churn rate, leading to cascading instability.
```

> CA could also be [compromised](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority#CA_compromise)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The CA could also be [compromised](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority#CA_compromise)
```

> by an attacker who claims to present someone else and trick the CA to issue a certificate. The

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
by an attacker who claims to present someone else and trick the CA into issuing a certificate. The
```

attacker can then use that certificate to communicate with other peers. This is where
[certificate revocation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Certificate_authority#Certificate_revocation) can remediate the situation by revoking the
certificate so it is no longer valid. Otherwise the attacker can exploit the compromised

> certificate till expiry. It is critical to keep the private key for the root certificates in an HSM

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
certificate until its expiry. It is critical to keep the private key for the root certificates in a Hardware Security Module (HSM)
```

that is kept [offline](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Online_and_offline) and use intermediate

> certificates for signing workload certificates. In the event when CA is brown-out or stalled for 5

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
certificates for signing workload certificates. In the event when CA has a brown-out or is stalled for 5
```

> minutes, you won’t be able to obtain new or renewed workload certificates but the previously issued

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
minutes, you won’t be able to obtain new or renewed workload certificates, but the previously issued
```

and valid certificates continue to provide strong identity guarantees for your workloads. For
increased reliability for issuance, you can deploy Intermediate CAs to different zones and regions.

## mTLS in Istio

### Enable mTLS

Enabling mTLS in Istio for intra-mesh applications is very simple. All you need is to add your
applications to the mesh, which can be done by labeling your namespace for either sidecar injection

> or ambient. In the case of sidecar, a rollout restart would be required for sidecar to be injected

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
or ambient. In the case of sidecar, a rollout restart would be required for the sidecar to be injected
```

to your application pods.

### Cryptographic identity

> In Kubernetes environment, [Istio](/docs/concepts/security/#istio-identity)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In a Kubernetes environment, [Istio](/docs/concepts/security/#istio-identity)
```

> creates an application’s identity based on its service account. Identity certificate is provided to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
creates an application’s identity based on its service account. An identity certificate is provided to
```

each application pod in the mesh after you add your application to the mesh.

> By default, your pod identity certificate expires in 24 hours and Istio rotates the pod identity

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, your pod's identity certificate expires in 24 hours and Istio rotates the pod identity
```

> certificate every 12 hours so that in the event of compromising (for example, compromised CA or

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
certificate every 12 hours so that in the event of a compromise (for example, compromised CA or
```

stolen private key for the pod), the compromised certificate only works for a very limited period

> of time until the certificate expires therefore could limit the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
of time until the certificate expires and therefore could limit the
```

damage it can cause.

### Enforce strict mTLS

The default mTLS behavior is mTLS whenever possible but not strictly enforced. To strictly enforce
your application to accept only mTLS traffic, you can use Istio’s
[PeerAuthentication](/docs/reference/config/security/peer_authentication/) policy, mesh-wide or
per namespace or workload. In addition, you can also apply Istio’s
[AuthorizationPolicy](/docs/reference/config/security/authorization-policy/) to control access for your workloads.

### TLS version

TLS version 1.3 is the default in Istio for intra-mesh application communication with the Envoy’s
[default cipher suites](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/extensions/transport_sockets/tls/v3/common.proto)
(for example `TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384` for Istio 1.19.0). If you need an older version, you can
[configure a different mesh-wide minimum TLS protocol version](/docs/tasks/security/tls-configuration/workload-min-tls-version/) for your workloads.

## Wrapping up

> The TLS protocol, as established by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF),  is one of the most

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The TLS protocol, as established by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), is one of the most
```

widely-reviewed, expert-approved, battle-tested data security protocols in existence. TLS is also
widely used globally - whenever you visit any secured website, you shop with confidence partly

> because of the connection secure icon to indicate that you are connected to the trusted site

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
because of the connection secure icon to indicate that you are connected to a trusted site
```
